the US Secretary State Anthony blinkin
says there's still room for an agreement
after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu dismissed the ceasefire
proposal the deal was put forth by Hamas
after mediation by the Qatari by Qatar
and Egypt Muhammad jamdom reports from
Tel
Aviv less than a day after Hamas
submitted its response to a potential
Gaza ceasefire plan US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin arrived in Israel
hoping to build on that momentum
but hours after meeting with prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu Israel all
but rejected the current framework for a
cessation of
hostilities now is the time for the
Israeli Defense Forces to allow safe
corridors for the residents of Rafa we
shall continue destroying the
capabilities of Hamas until we achieve
that and I emphasize we have no other
option but decisive
victory hamash for its part said that
unlike Israel they had taken a positive
approach to the ceasefire
proposal Netanyahu and his government
are seeking to continue to mislead the
public opinion in Israel and to prolong
its aggression despite the losses they
sustaining in personnel and equipment
with the attempts to Halt the war
seemingly at a standstill one
significant point of contention
continues to be whether any agreed to
ceasefire would be permanent despite the
Diplomatic setbacks at a press
conference in Tel Aviv Lincoln insisted
a ceasefire deal between Israel and
Hamas was still a possibility good
evening we had an opportunity today to
discuss with the Israeli government the
response that Hamas sent last night to
the proposal that the United States
cutter and Egypt had put together uh to
bring the remaining hostages home and
extend the humanitarian pause uh what I
can tell you about these discussions is
that while there are some clear
non-starters in hamas's response uh we
do think it creates space for agreement
to be reached and we will work at that
relentlessly until we get there it was
an intense day of talks for America's
top Diplomat at the end of it Anthony
blinkin did offer a positive outlook on
ultimately finding a path to peace but
he also gave few details about how
America now envisions finding a way to
end the war Muhammad jamj jaaz Tel Aviv
is joining us from occupi Jerusalem so
the Prime Minister has ordered his
troops to push further into ra as we've
been hearing at the same time Rory
dismissing a ceasefire proposal by Hamas
how are we to understand this and what
happens next when it comes to the
negotiations well from the point of view
of Jerusalem from the point of view of
netanyahu's coalition government there
is no change the war goes on from the
point point of view of Hamas in the
tunnels underneath Gaza there is no
change and the war goes on and from the
point of view of the people in the
ruined streets on the surface of Gaza in
the in the tent camps of course as well
there is no change they can continue to
be killed and the war goes on in DC in
uh Doha in Cairo and in Riyad as well
well there's going to be some head
scratching and trying to work out how
they can take things forward what next
you could hear the disappointment I
think from uh from Anthony blinkin in
that press briefing yesterday you know
he didn't just come here to put a a
brotherly arm around Israel and try to
guide it back towards a a quote unquote
more acceptable form of warfare he came
to get a deal and he didn't get it he
reminded me in that press conference of
uh you know a spurned lover who's just
had a massive rejection but still thinks
that he's got a chance he is trying to
keep the possibility of U A Renewed
ceasefire alive and he is going to be
trying to work out where the possibility
is for bridging that huge Gulf between
the positions of Hamas and the positions
of the Netanyahu government and he might
be right there might be a chance but at
the moment uh he is going back to DC
after wrapping up a few other uh
supplementary meetings here in uh
this part of the world he's going back
to DC and he's going back empty-handed
okay thank you Rory Chalin reporting
from occupied East Jerusalem let's now
speak to Shaham Akbar Zade who's a
research professor of Middle East at
Central Asian politics at Deacon
University joining us uh from DHA thanks
for speaking to us let's first look at
uh netanyahu's comments when it comes to
the draft proposal put forward by Hamas
he called it
delusional do you think that he rejected
it or or is there is still space for
negotiation going
forward I think from n's point of view
first thanks for having um from his
point of view
um any deal with Hamas would give
credibility and recognition to Hamas so
he's very averse to the idea of signing
a a ceasefire deal even end of the
conflict the peace be with Hamas
secondly he knows very much that his
future political future is tied to the
right wing in uh Israeli politics he has
people like the security minister who
was uh actively advocated the capture of
Gaza and repopulation settlement of
Israelis in Gaza so uh netanyahu's
future is very much in the hand of the
right wing and he's not going to
antagonize them by U stepping back from
his promise of destroying Hamas right
but the more time passes the more risk
there is that more captives are killed
in Gaza by the Israeli bombing as we've
seen so is there a timeline here that
Netanyahu feels like you know he has to
work
with I think Netanyahu has accepted and
I think all um the families of hostages
have
recognized uh that the hostages are
acceptable collateral damage nanyo is
not making decision based on the
interest of the Israeli hostages in Gaza
he's making decision based on his own
interest his political interest um in
the future of Israel will how much
pressure do you think is the US
Administration willing to put on
Netanyahu at this point in time we heard
uh Secretary of State blinkin in Tel
Aviv uh saying that negotiations towards
a deal will continue do you think that
he sounds uh
optimistic I think it's despite our
running to see the United uh State
Administration um change its position
from an unconditional support for Israel
to uh
self-defense uh as that's the way uh
they presented the war in Gaza uh to now
gradually asking Israel to modify Its
Behavior Uh try to avoid civilian death
and perhaps discuss some kind of a
ceasefire te it does put the US in a
difficult position but at the end of the
day the United States is is Israel's
steadfast all International Arena and
it's not going to um abandon that
position so the the pressure and the
power that the US has over Israel is
quite limited actually so what happens
in the next few days when it comes to
this draft proposal we have an Israeli
reaction Netanyahu says it's delusional
what
next I think as your correspondent uh
made it clear what next is more War uh
Netanyahu Israel has the power to accept
or negotiate any ceasefire any peace de
and the current Israeli Administration
under the ring government ofo has made
it clear that they have no interest in
uh a ceasefire and all going out they're
going all the way out for the
destruction of Hamas which means
destruction of Palestinians in
Gaza okay we'll leave it there thank you
Shaham Akbar Zade for speaking to us
from
DHA thanks for having